Prayer for the Swift Rebirth of Pewar Rinpoche
Victorious chief of the Śākyas, sun of this fortunate age,
Venerable Padmākara, powerful lord among siddhas,
And oceanic bodhisattvas, sages and vidyādharas,
To you I pray: cause this aspiration to be fulfilled!
You gained realization through familiarity with the genuine path,
And attained the indestructible and immortal vajrakāya,
Now with your activity of taming countless beings,
You’re a beacon of non-sectarian teachings—to you I pray.
The Mañjughoṣa guru Chökyi Lodrö recognised you,
With his infallible prophetic speech, as a holder of the teachings
And scattered flowers of praise to adorn the crown
Of one whose oceanic learning and realization are supreme and unrivalled.
Now that the wish-granting jewel of your coarse rūpakāya
Has returned to the casket of the peaceful space of union,
Let the supreme display of your illusory form
Swiftly return for the sake of fortunate disciples.
Lord of fully developed merit who upholds
The instructions of Lamdré and luminous Great Perfection,
Which bestow supreme and perfect joy on all,
Guide who reveals the path to liberation, may you swiftly reappear.
For the unruly beings of this age of fivefold decadence,
Who were not tamed by other sun-like conquerors,
Do not relinquish the cooling cordlike rays of your affection,
But emerge from the celestial sphere as a moon-like bodhisattva.
In saṃsāra’s dungeon, darkened by the five poisons,
Sentient beings are acutely tormented and oppressed,
Overwhelmed by suffering, confused as to what to adopt and avoid,
Emerge, then, from the pure realms as the guiding light of the sun.
With calm, gentle conduct that leaves all faults behind,
Wearing saffron robes, holding the vital force of liberation,
Utterly pure in ethical discipline, an heir to the victorious—
Supremely venerable one, may your emanation swiftly reappear.
With the full force of merit gathered over aeons,
Just like Mañjughoṣa and Samantabhadra too,
A mighty bodhisattva who trains oceanic realms of beings
Through the most excellent path, may you swiftly reappear.
With the faculty of speech to explain the Victor’s Words,
A lightning-like tongue to prevail over evil utterances,
And a rich, thunderous roar to proclaim elegant sayings—
As a master orator, may your emanation swiftly reappear.
Rich with scriptural knowledge of oceanic sūtras and tantras
And an extensive array of jewel-like realization of the paths and stages,
Able to raise the great umbrella of the teachings of the Lord of Sages—
As a sun of the teachings, may your emanation swiftly reappear.
Ablaze with the brilliant sun of wisdom like Mañjughoṣa,
With the lotus of merit and twofold accumulation in full bloom,
And the power to excellently explain sūtra and mantra instruction—
As a lord among scholars, may your emanation swiftly reappear!
Purifying ordinary fixed perception with the water of the two stages,
Setting alight the wisdom of great bliss with the fire of luminosity,
And with mastery of the kāya of supreme and indivisible union—
As a mighty lord of realization, may your emanation swiftly reappear!
Gaining mastery of instructions from millions of sūtras and mantras,
Advice from the oral teachings, the pinnacle of vehicles, and the like,
And training the fortunate through the wheel of ripening and liberating—
To continue your predecessor’s activity, may your emanation swiftly reappear!
Through the blessings of the refuge and protection, the guru and Three Jewels,
And through the force of the dependent arising of faith, samaya and pure noble intention,
May we behold the golden face of your youthful emanation,
Empowered with deathless and vajra-like longevity.